# clean_react_app

## Description

`clean_react_app` is a Python script designed to create a new React application and remove some default files. It then replaces these default files with predefined files from the "boilerplate_files" directory. These files are only the required ones without useless comments and components: `App.js`, `index.js`, `index.html` and `README.md`. This script is helpful if you frequently create new React apps and would like to start with a different base other than the default `create-react-app` template. Once the React app is created, you can move it out of this directory to wherever you would like.

## Showcase

A React project named `test` is in this directory to showcase how the app looks like after using `python3 clean_react_app.py test`.

## Requirements

-   Python 3.6 or newer
-   Node.js and npm
-   npx installed globally (`npm install -g npx`)
-   `create-react-app` installed globally (`npm install -g create-react-app`)

## Usage

To use `clean_react_app`, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you are in the same directory as the `clean_react_app.py` script.
2. Run the script with the name of the React app you want to create as an argument. Example: `python3 clean_react_app.py MyApp`
3. If you want the script to also start the React app automatically (`npm start`), include the `-y` flag. Example: `python3 clean_react_app.py MyApp -y`

Note: This script expects to find a `boilerplate_files` directory (**already provided**) in the same directory as itself, containing `src`, `public`, and `README.md` that will be used to replace the ones generated by `create-react-app`.

## Functions

The script contains the following functions:

-   `copy_directory(src, dst)`: Copies a directory from `src` to `dst`.
-   `replace_react_dir(original_dir, clean_dir)`: Deletes `original_dir` and replaces it with `clean_dir`.
-   `replace_file(src_file, dest_file)`: Replaces `dest_file` with `src_file`.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## Author

[Jose Matute](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jose-e-matute-garcia-780032214/)

## License

MIT
